reference/twig-extensions/functions/sulu_content_path.rst, before:

``sulu_content_path``
=====================

Returns the absolute URL for the content at the given path. The domain 
is taken from ``config/webspaces/*.xml`` and your current
environment. In case you have multiple URLs in one environment, you can
prioritize one by giving it ``<url main="true">``.

.. code-block:: jinja

    <ul class="nav nav-justified">
        {% for item in content.snippets[0].internalLinks %}
            <li>
                <a href="{{ sulu_content_path(item.url, item.webspaceKey) }}" title="{{ item.title }}">{{ item.title }}</a>
            </li>
        {% endfor %}
    </ul>

**Arguments**:

- **url**: *string* - Url to get path
- **webspaceKey** *string* - If item is not in the same webspace as current
  content (**optional**)
- **locale** *string* - If item is not in the same locale as current
  content (**optional**)
- **domain** *string* - If a specific domain should be used to generate the url
  (**optional**)
- **scheme** *string* - If a different scheme (as the current scheme) should be
  used to generate the url (**optional**)

**Returns**: *string* - Absolute URL

Commit message:

Add twig example to every content type

reference/twig-extensions/functions/sulu_content_path.rst, after:

``sulu_content_path``
=====================

Returns the absolute URL for the content at the given path. The domain
is taken from ``config/webspaces/*.xml`` and your current
environment. In case you have multiple URLs in one environment, you can
prioritize one by giving it ``<url main="true">``.

.. code-block:: jinja

    <ul class="nav nav-justified">
        {% for item in content.snippets[0].internalLinks %}
            <li>
                <a href="{{ sulu_content_path(item.url, item.webspaceKey) }}" title="{{ item.title }}">{{ item.title }}</a>
            </li>
        {% endfor %}
    </ul>

**Arguments**:

- **url**: *string* - Url to get path
- **webspaceKey** *string* - If item is not in the same webspace as current
  content (**optional**)
- **locale** *string* - If item is not in the same locale as current
  content (**optional**)
- **domain** *string* - If a specific domain should be used to generate the url
  (**optional**)
- **scheme** *string* - If a different scheme (as the current scheme) should be
  used to generate the url (**optional**)

**Returns**: *string* - Absolute URL

.. note::

    The ``sulu_content_load`` twig extension loads the whole page with it content and so
    can have a negative impact on the performance of the page and if possible should be
    avoided.
