developer/contributing/index.rst, before:

Contributing
============

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 1

    pull-requests

All contributions are welcome!

We try and stand on the shoulders of giants, this means that we generally copy the
existing coding and documentation standards of the Symfony project (with some
minor differences).

Contributing code
-----------------

All contributed code must abide by the `Symfony coding standards`_. But don't
let this be an obstacle to contributing. When in doubt, copy the standards of
the code that you are changing.

After you have submitted your PR our team will review the code.

When making a `pull request`_ please refer to the :doc:`pull-requests` article.

Contributing documentation
--------------------------

Again see the `Symfony documentation standard`_ as a guide, but when in doubt
just submit the PR and we will review it.

.. _Symfony coding standards: http://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/code/standards.html
.. _pull request: hhttps://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests
.. _Symfony documentation standard: http://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/documentation/standards.html

Commit message:

Add test your code section to contribution chapter.

developer/contributing/index.rst, after:

Contributing
============

All contributions are welcome!

We try and stand on the shoulders of giants, this means that we generally copy the
existing coding and documentation standards of the Symfony project (with some
minor differences).

Contributing code
-----------------

All contributed code must abide by the `Symfony coding standards`_. But don't
let this be an obstacle to contributing. When in doubt, copy the standards of
the code that you are changing.

After you have submitted your PR our team will review the code.

When making a `pull request`_ please refer to the :doc:`pull-requests` article.

Contributing documentation
--------------------------

Again see the `Symfony documentation standard`_ as a guide, but when in doubt
just submit the PR and we will review it.

**What you can find in the Developer Guide:**

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    pull-requests
    test-your-code

.. _Symfony coding standards: http://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/code/standards.html
.. _pull request: hhttps://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests
.. _Symfony documentation standard: http://symfony.com/doc/current/contributing/documentation/standards.html
