book/getting-started/installation.rst, before:

Installation
============

After working through this page you'll have a running Sulu instance. At first we'll
load Sulu and afterwards dependent packages.

Get the code
------------

First of all you have to clone the `sulu-standard repository on GitHub
<https://github.com/sulu-io/sulu-standard>`_ and change into the cloned
directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/sulu-io/sulu-standard.git

After the clone has finished, you can change to the cloned directory, and
checkout the latest version of Sulu:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd sulu-standard
    $ git checkout master

Install dependencies
--------------------

We use `composer`_ to install the correct versions of
Sulu's dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    composer install

At the end of the installation you will be asked for some parameters. The
following table describes these parameters, whereby most of the default values
should be fine for simple installations.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Description
    * - database_driver
      - Defines which database driver will be used
    * - database_host
      - The address of the server, on whch the database is running
    * - database_port
      - The port number to access the database on that server
    * - database_name
      - The name of the database
    * - database_user
      - The name of the database user
    * - database_password
      - The password of the database user
    * - mailer_transport
      - The protocol to send mails (currently not used)
    * - mailer_host
      - The server from which the mails will be sent (currently not used)
    * - mailer_user
      - The username for sending mails (currently not used)
    * - mailer_password
      - The password for sending mails (currently not used)
    * - locale
      - The default locale for the system
    * - secret
      - An unique key needed by the symfony framework
    * - sulu_admin.name
      - A name, which will be shown in the administration interface
    * - sulu_admin.email
      - Administrator email address
    * - content_fallback_intervall
      - The intervall in milliseconds, between content preview update in the
        http polling mode
    * - websocket_port
      - The port which will be used for the content preview in the http polling mode
    * - websocket_url
      - The url which will be used for the content preview in the http polling mode        
    * - phpcr_backend
      - The PHPCR backend definition, defaults to the doctrine-dbal, check
        http://doctrine-phpcr-odm.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/installation-configuration.html
        for more configuration options
    * - phpcr_workspace
      - The PHPCR workspace which will be used
    * - phpcr_user
      - The user for phpcr
    * - phpcr_pass
      - The password for phpcr
    * - phpcr_cache
      - PHPCR caching type

Now `sulu.local/admin <sulu.local/admin>`_ - or whatever url your webserver
is running on - should load the Sulu backend. More information on how to 
configure your local webserver: :doc:`vhost`. Congratulations.


.. _Jackalope Jackrabbit: https://github.com/jackalope/jackalope-jackrabbit
.. _Jackalope Doctrine-Dbal: https://github.com/jackalope/jackalope-doctrine-dbal
.. _Apache Jackrabbit: https://github.com/jackalope/jackalope-jackrabbit
.. _Composer:  https://getcomposer.org/
.. _MassiveBuildBundle: http://github.com/massiveart/MassiveBuildBundle

Commit message:

removed wrong hint on a working admin interface

book/getting-started/installation.rst, after:

Installation
============

After working through this page you'll have a running Sulu instance. At first we'll
load Sulu and afterwards dependent packages.

Get the code
------------

First of all you have to clone the `sulu-standard repository on GitHub
<https://github.com/sulu-io/sulu-standard>`_ and change into the cloned
directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/sulu-io/sulu-standard.git

After the clone has finished, you can change to the cloned directory, and
checkout the latest version of Sulu:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd sulu-standard
    $ git checkout master

Install dependencies
--------------------

We use `composer`_ to install the correct versions of
Sulu's dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    composer install

At the end of the installation you will be asked for some parameters. The
following table describes these parameters, whereby most of the default values
should be fine for simple installations.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Description
    * - database_driver
      - Defines which database driver will be used
    * - database_host
      - The address of the server, on whch the database is running
    * - database_port
      - The port number to access the database on that server
    * - database_name
      - The name of the database
    * - database_user
      - The name of the database user
    * - database_password
      - The password of the database user
    * - mailer_transport
      - The protocol to send mails (currently not used)
    * - mailer_host
      - The server from which the mails will be sent (currently not used)
    * - mailer_user
      - The username for sending mails (currently not used)
    * - mailer_password
      - The password for sending mails (currently not used)
    * - locale
      - The default locale for the system
    * - secret
      - An unique key needed by the symfony framework
    * - sulu_admin.name
      - A name, which will be shown in the administration interface
    * - sulu_admin.email
      - Administrator email address
    * - content_fallback_intervall
      - The intervall in milliseconds, between content preview update in the
        http polling mode
    * - websocket_port
      - The port which will be used for the content preview in the http polling mode
    * - websocket_url
      - The url which will be used for the content preview in the http polling mode        
    * - phpcr_backend
      - The PHPCR backend definition, defaults to the doctrine-dbal, check
        http://doctrine-phpcr-odm.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/installation-configuration.html
        for more configuration options
    * - phpcr_workspace
      - The PHPCR workspace which will be used
    * - phpcr_user
      - The user for phpcr
    * - phpcr_pass
      - The password for phpcr
    * - phpcr_cache
      - PHPCR caching type

Congratulations! You have just installed Sulu. Continue with :doc:`setup` to
setup your first Sulu website.

.. _Jackalope Jackrabbit: https://github.com/jackalope/jackalope-jackrabbit
.. _Jackalope Doctrine-Dbal: https://github.com/jackalope/jackalope-doctrine-dbal
.. _Apache Jackrabbit: https://github.com/jackalope/jackalope-jackrabbit
.. _Composer:  https://getcomposer.org/
.. _MassiveBuildBundle: http://github.com/massiveart/MassiveBuildBundle
