reference/content-types/link.rst, before:

Link
======

Description
-----------

The link content type allows to select different type of links, including links to internal entities like
pages and external URLs.
The content type can be limited to allow only specific link types and configured to show an ``anchor`` and
a ``target`` field.


The link content type can be extended with additional link types by :doc:`implementing a custom LinkProvider service<../../cookbook/link-provider>`.

Parameters
----------

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Type
      - Description
    * - enable_target
      - bool
      - Enables the ``target`` input field in the overlay. Default: ``false``
    * - enable_anchor
      - bool
      - Enables the ``anchor`` input field in the overlay. Default: ``false``
    * - enable_title
      - bool
      - Enables the ``title`` input field in the overlay. Default: ``false``
    * - types
      - collection
      - List of available types in the dropdown.
        Default: All registered link types

Example
-------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="link" type="link">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Link</title>
            <title lang="de">Link</title>
        </meta>
    </property>

Twig
----

.. code-block:: twig

    <a href="{{ content.link }}">Click me</a>

Complex Example
---------------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="link" type="link">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Link</title>
            <title lang="de">Link</title>
        </meta>

        <params>
            <param name="enable_target" value="true"/>
            <param name="enable_anchor" value="true"/>
            <param name="enable_title" value="true"/>
            <param name="types" type="collection">
                <param name="page"/>
                <param name="external"/>
                <param name="media"/>
            </param>
        </params>
    </property>

Complex Twig
------------

.. code-block:: twig

    <a href="{{ content.link }}" target="{{ view.link.target }}">
        {{ view.link.title }}
    </a>

Commit message:

Add excluded_types to link documentation (#719)
* Add excluded_types to link documentation

* Update reference/content-types/link.rst

Co-authored-by: niklasnatter <niklas@sulu.io>

reference/content-types/link.rst, after:

Link
======

Description
-----------

The link content type allows to select different type of links, including links to internal entities like
pages and external URLs.
The content type can be limited to allow only specific link types and configured to show an ``anchor`` and
a ``target`` field.


The link content type can be extended with additional link types by :doc:`implementing a custom LinkProvider service<../../cookbook/link-provider>`.

Parameters
----------

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Type
      - Description
    * - enable_target
      - bool
      - Enables the ``target`` input field in the overlay. Default: ``false``
    * - enable_anchor
      - bool
      - Enables the ``anchor`` input field in the overlay. Default: ``false``
    * - enable_title
      - bool
      - Enables the ``title`` input field in the overlay. Default: ``false``
    * - types
      - collection
      - List of available types in the dropdown.
        Default: All registered link types
    * - excluded_types
      - collection
      - List of types that should be excluded in the dropdown.
        Default: empty array

Example
-------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="link" type="link">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Link</title>
            <title lang="de">Link</title>
        </meta>
    </property>

Twig
----

.. code-block:: twig

    <a href="{{ content.link }}">Click me</a>

Complex Example
---------------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="link" type="link">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Link</title>
            <title lang="de">Link</title>
        </meta>

        <params>
            <param name="enable_target" value="true"/>
            <param name="enable_anchor" value="true"/>
            <param name="enable_title" value="true"/>
            <param name="types" type="collection">
                <param name="page"/>
                <param name="external"/>
                <param name="media"/>
            </param>
        </params>
    </property>

Complex Twig
------------

.. code-block:: twig

    <a href="{{ content.link }}" target="{{ view.link.target }}">
        {{ view.link.title }}
    </a>
