reference/content-types/single_snippet_selection.rst, before:

Single Snippet Selection
========================

Description
-----------

Allows to select a single snippet. Snippets are reusable pieces of content that can be included on multiple pages.

Parameters
----------

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Type
      - Description
    * - types
      - string
      - If set, only snippets of the type can be selected.
    * - default
      - string
      - If set, the default snippet of the given area will be used as fallback value if no snippet is selected.
    * - loadExcerpt
      - boolean
      - If set to true, the taxonomies information of the snippet is loaded into a "taxonomies" property.
    * - item_disabled_condition
      - string
      - Allows to set a `jexl`_ expression that evaluates if an item should be displayed as disabled.
        Disabled items cannot be selected.
    * - allow_deselect_for_disabled_items
      - bool
      - Defines if the user should be able to deselect an item that is disabled. Default value is true.
    * - request_parameters
      - collection
      - Collection of parameters that are appended to the requests sent by the selection.
    * - resource_store_properties_to_request
      - collection
      - Collection of property names.
        The value of the respective properties are appended to the requests sent by the selection.

Example
-------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="snippet" type="single_snippet_selection">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Snippet</title>
        </meta>

        <params>
            <param name="types" value="default"/>
            <param name="default" value="footer_social_media_links"/>
            <param name="loadExcerpt" value="true"/>
        </params>
    </property>

Twig
----

.. code-block:: twig

    {{ content.snippet.title }}

.. _jexl: https://github.com/TomFrost/jexl

Commit message:

Mention that snippets can not define multiple types or areas (#779)

reference/content-types/single_snippet_selection.rst, after:

Single Snippet Selection
========================

Description
-----------

Allows to select a single snippet. Snippets are reusable pieces of content that can be included on multiple pages.

Currently this content type does not support multiple areas and types.

Parameters
----------

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Type
      - Description
    * - types
      - string
      - If set, only snippets of the type can be selected.
    * - default
      - string
      - If set, the default snippet of the given area will be used as fallback value if no snippet is selected.
    * - loadExcerpt
      - boolean
      - If set to true, the taxonomies information of the snippet is loaded into a "taxonomies" property.
    * - item_disabled_condition
      - string
      - Allows to set a `jexl`_ expression that evaluates if an item should be displayed as disabled.
        Disabled items cannot be selected.
    * - allow_deselect_for_disabled_items
      - bool
      - Defines if the user should be able to deselect an item that is disabled. Default value is true.
    * - request_parameters
      - collection
      - Collection of parameters that are appended to the requests sent by the selection.
    * - resource_store_properties_to_request
      - collection
      - Collection of property names.
        The value of the respective properties are appended to the requests sent by the selection.

Example
-------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="snippet" type="single_snippet_selection">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Snippet</title>
        </meta>

        <params>
            <param name="types" value="default"/>
            <param name="default" value="footer_social_media_links"/>
            <param name="loadExcerpt" value="true"/>
        </params>
    </property>

Twig
----

.. code-block:: twig

    {{ content.snippet.title }}

.. _jexl: https://github.com/TomFrost/jexl
