reference/content-types/snippet_selection.rst, before:

Snippet Selection
=================

Description
-----------

Allows to select an arbitrary number of snippets. Snippets are reusable pieces of content that can be included on
multiple pages. The assigned snippets will be saved as an array of references.

Parameters
----------

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Type
      - Description
    * - types
      - string
      - If set, only snippets of the type can be selected.
    * - default
      - string
      - If set, the default snippet of the given area will be used as fallback value if no snippet is selected.
    * - loadExcerpt
      - boolean
      - If set to true, the taxonomies information of the snippet is loaded into a "taxonomies" property.
    * - item_disabled_condition
      - string
      - Allows to set a `jexl`_ expression that evaluates if an item should be displayed as disabled.
        Disabled items cannot be selected.
    * - allow_deselect_for_disabled_items
      - bool
      - Defines if the user should be able to deselect an item that is disabled. Default value is true.
    * - sortable
      - bool
      - Defines if the user should be able to sort the selected items. Default value is true.
    * - request_parameters
      - collection
      - Collection of parameters that are appended to the requests sent by the selection.
    * - resource_store_properties_to_request
      - collection
      - Collection of property names.
        The value of the respective properties are appended to the requests sent by the selection.
    * - min
      - string
      - The minimum number of selected snippets
    * - max
      - string
      - The maximum number of selected snippets

Example
-------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="snippets" type="snippet_selection">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Snippets</title>
        </meta>

        <params>
            <param name="types" value="sidebar"/>
            <param name="default" value="footer_social_media_links"/>
            <param name="loadExcerpt" value="true"/>
        </params>
    </property>

Twig
----

.. code-block:: twig

    {% for snippet in content.snippets %}
        {{ snippet.title }}
    {% endfor %}

.. _jexl: https://github.com/TomFrost/jexl

Commit message:

Mention that snippets can not define multiple types or areas (#779)

reference/content-types/snippet_selection.rst, after:

Snippet Selection
=================

Description
-----------

Allows to select an arbitrary number of snippets. Snippets are reusable pieces of content that can be included on
multiple pages. The assigned snippets will be saved as an array of references.

Currently this content type does not support multiple areas and types.

Parameters
----------

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter
      - Type
      - Description
    * - types
      - string
      - If set, only snippets of the type can be selected.
    * - default
      - string
      - If set, the default snippet of the given area will be used as fallback value if no snippet is selected.
    * - loadExcerpt
      - boolean
      - If set to true, the taxonomies information of the snippet is loaded into a "taxonomies" property.
    * - item_disabled_condition
      - string
      - Allows to set a `jexl`_ expression that evaluates if an item should be displayed as disabled.
        Disabled items cannot be selected.
    * - allow_deselect_for_disabled_items
      - bool
      - Defines if the user should be able to deselect an item that is disabled. Default value is true.
    * - sortable
      - bool
      - Defines if the user should be able to sort the selected items. Default value is true.
    * - request_parameters
      - collection
      - Collection of parameters that are appended to the requests sent by the selection.
    * - resource_store_properties_to_request
      - collection
      - Collection of property names.
        The value of the respective properties are appended to the requests sent by the selection.
    * - min
      - string
      - The minimum number of selected snippets
    * - max
      - string
      - The maximum number of selected snippets

Example
-------

.. code-block:: xml

    <property name="snippets" type="snippet_selection">
        <meta>
            <title lang="en">Snippets</title>
        </meta>

        <params>
            <param name="types" value="sidebar"/>
            <param name="default" value="footer_social_media_links"/>
            <param name="loadExcerpt" value="true"/>
        </params>
    </property>

Twig
----

.. code-block:: twig

    {% for snippet in content.snippets %}
        {{ snippet.title }}
    {% endfor %}

.. _jexl: https://github.com/TomFrost/jexl
