cookbook/extend-entities.rst, before:

Extend Entities
===============

Sulu has a very easy way to extend and replace the internal entities. This feature is not
implemented for each entity but it will be implemented for all soon.

These entities are ready to extend:

* User
* Role
* Contact
* Account
* Category
* Media
* Tag

You can extend all of them in the same way. Therefore we explain it for `User` here.

Create a Entity
---------------

Create your own Entity for example in the `src` folder and extends the Entity with the Sulu
`User` class.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    namespace App\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;
    use Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\User as SuluUser;

    /**
     * The following annotations are required for replacing the table of the extended entity:
     *
     * @ORM\Table(name="se_users")
     * @ORM\Entity
     */
    class User extends SuluUser
    {
        /**
         * @var string
         *
         * @ORM\Column(name="myProperty", type="string", length=255, nullable = true)
         */
        private $myProperty;

        /**
         * Set myProperty
         *
         * @param string $myProperty
         * @return User
         */
        public function setMyProperty($myProperty)
        {
            $this->myProperty = $myProperty;

            return $this;
        }

        /**
         * Get myProperty
         *
         * @return string
         */
        public function getMyProperty()
        {
            return $this->myProperty;
        }
    }

.. warning::

    Your Entity can have own properties, but they should have at least default values.
    Otherwise the normal features of Sulu could crash (like the
    `sulu:security:user:create` command).

.. warning::

    The `@ORM\\Table` annotation on your entity must match the table of the extended entity.
    Otherwise, doctrine might run into errors when querying data of the entity.

Configuration
-------------

You can specify your new entity and if it exists your repository
in the configuration section of the file ``config/packages/*``.
If the file does not exist you need to create it.

For the `User` entity (`se_users`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_security.yaml
    sulu_security:
        objects:
            user:
                model: App\Entity\User
                repository: Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\UserRepository

For the `Role` entity (`se_roles`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_security.yaml
    sulu_security:
        objects:
            role:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\Role
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\RoleRepository

For the `Contact` entity (`co_contacts`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_contact.yaml
    sulu_contact:
        objects:
            contact:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\Contact
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\ContactRepository

For the `Account` entity (`co_accounts`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_contact.yaml
    sulu_contact:
        objects:
            account:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\Account
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\AccountRepository

For the `Category` entity (`ca_categories`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_category.yaml
    sulu_category:
        objects:
            category:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\Category
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryRepository
            category_meta:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryMeta
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryMetaRepository
            category_translation:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryTranslation
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryTranslationRepository
            keyword:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\Keyword
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\KeywordRepository

For the `Media` entity (`me_media`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_media.yaml
    sulu_media:
        objects:
            media:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\MediaBundle\Entity\Media
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\MediaBundle\Entity\MediaRepository

For the `Tag` entity (`ta_tags`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_tag.yaml
    sulu_tag:
        objects:
            tag:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\TagBundle\Entity\Tag
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\TagBundle\Entity\TagRepository

.. warning::

    If you override entities in an existing project, you need to migrate the existing data to avoid data loss.

Commit message:

Added new warning clause
New warning clause that says to try to cache clear if the sql dump results in an error.

cookbook/extend-entities.rst, after:

Extend Entities
===============

Sulu has a very easy way to extend and replace the internal entities. This feature is not
implemented for each entity but it will be implemented for all soon.

These entities are ready to extend:

* User
* Role
* Contact
* Account
* Category
* Media
* Tag

You can extend all of them in the same way. Therefore we explain it for `User` here.

Create a Entity
---------------

Create your own Entity for example in the `src` folder and extends the Entity with the Sulu
`User` class.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    namespace App\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;
    use Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\User as SuluUser;

    /**
     * The following annotations are required for replacing the table of the extended entity:
     *
     * @ORM\Table(name="se_users")
     * @ORM\Entity
     */
    class User extends SuluUser
    {
        /**
         * @var string
         *
         * @ORM\Column(name="myProperty", type="string", length=255, nullable = true)
         */
        private $myProperty;

        /**
         * Set myProperty
         *
         * @param string $myProperty
         * @return User
         */
        public function setMyProperty($myProperty)
        {
            $this->myProperty = $myProperty;

            return $this;
        }

        /**
         * Get myProperty
         *
         * @return string
         */
        public function getMyProperty()
        {
            return $this->myProperty;
        }
    }

.. warning::

    Your Entity can have own properties, but they should have at least default values.
    Otherwise the normal features of Sulu could crash (like the
    `sulu:security:user:create` command).

.. warning::

    The `@ORM\\Table` annotation on your entity must match the table of the extended entity.
    Otherwise, doctrine might run into errors when querying data of the entity.
    
.. warning::

|    If you get the following error ``The table with name 'your_db.se_users' already exists.`` when trying to dump your sql, you might want to run the following command line:
|    ``php bin/console cache:clear``

Configuration
-------------

You can specify your new entity and if it exists your repository
in the configuration section of the file ``config/packages/*``.
If the file does not exist you need to create it.

For the `User` entity (`se_users`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_security.yaml
    sulu_security:
        objects:
            user:
                model: App\Entity\User
                repository: Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\UserRepository

For the `Role` entity (`se_roles`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_security.yaml
    sulu_security:
        objects:
            role:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\Role
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\RoleRepository

For the `Contact` entity (`co_contacts`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_contact.yaml
    sulu_contact:
        objects:
            contact:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\Contact
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\ContactRepository

For the `Account` entity (`co_accounts`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_contact.yaml
    sulu_contact:
        objects:
            account:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\Account
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\ContactBundle\Entity\AccountRepository

For the `Category` entity (`ca_categories`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_category.yaml
    sulu_category:
        objects:
            category:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\Category
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryRepository
            category_meta:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryMeta
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryMetaRepository
            category_translation:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryTranslation
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\CategoryTranslationRepository
            keyword:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\Keyword
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\CategoryBundle\Entity\KeywordRepository

For the `Media` entity (`me_media`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_media.yaml
    sulu_media:
        objects:
            media:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\MediaBundle\Entity\Media
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\MediaBundle\Entity\MediaRepository

For the `Tag` entity (`ta_tags`):

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/sulu_tag.yaml
    sulu_tag:
        objects:
            tag:
                model:                Sulu\Bundle\TagBundle\Entity\Tag
                repository:           Sulu\Bundle\TagBundle\Entity\TagRepository

.. warning::

    If you override entities in an existing project, you need to migrate the existing data to avoid data loss.
