cookbook/jackrabbit.rst, before:

Using Jackrabbit
================

If you maintain a bigger website, it might make sense to use Jackrabbit instead of
the ``doctrine-dbal`` implementation of Jackalope. Jackrabbit performs better in many
cases, and as a bonus it also supports :doc:`../bundles/page/versioning` of content.

Installation
------------

Use the following command to install the ``jackrabbit`` adapter:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer require jackalope/jackalope-jackrabbit

In addition to the previous command you also have to make sure that `Jackrabbit`_ is running
on your server.

Configuration
-------------

Change the ``config/packages/sulu_document_manager.yaml`` file to something similar as
below. Mind that it is recommended to pass the URL via an `environment variable`_, which
can e.g. be set in your ``.env`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    parameters:
        env(JACKRABBIT_URL): 'http://localhost:8080/server/'

    sulu_document_manager:
        sessions:
            default:
                backend:
                    type: jackrabbit
                    url: "%env(JACKRABBIT_URL)%"
                workspace: "%env(PHPCR_WORKSPACE)%"
            live:
                backend:
                    type: jackrabbit
                    url: "%env(JACKRABBIT_URL)%"
                workspace: "%env(PHPCR_WORKSPACE)%_live"

Migration
---------

In order to migrate from ``doctrinedbal`` to ``jackrabbit`` you have to export your
data before changing the configuration:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:export -p /cmf cmf.xml
    bin/websiteconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:export -p /cmf cmf_live.xml
    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:export -p /jcr:versions jcr.xml

Then change the configuration as explained in the above Configuration section, and
executed these commands to clear any previously existing data (first you should make
sure that you really don't need this data anymore).

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:node:remove /cmf
    bin/websiteconsole doctrine:phpcr:node:remove /cmf
    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:node:remove /jcr:versions

After that you can import the exported data from ``doctrinedbal`` into ``jackrabbit``
by running the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:import -p / cmf.xml
    bin/websiteconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:import -p / cmf_live.xml
    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:import -p / jcr.xml

.. _`Jackrabbit`: https://jackrabbit.apache.org/jcr/index.html
.. _`environment variable`: https://symfony.com/doc/4.4/configuration.html#config-env-vars

Commit message:

Add improvements to the jackrabbit migration (#538)

cookbook/jackrabbit.rst, after:

Using Jackrabbit
================

If you maintain a bigger website, it might make sense to use Jackrabbit instead of
the ``doctrine-dbal`` implementation of Jackalope. Jackrabbit performs better in many
cases, and as a bonus it also supports :doc:`../bundles/page/versioning` of content.

Installation
------------

Use the following command to install the ``jackrabbit`` adapter:

.. code-block:: bash

   composer require jackalope/jackalope-jackrabbit

In addition to the previous command you also have to make sure that `Jackrabbit`_ is running
on your server.

Configuration
-------------

Change the ``config/packages/sulu_document_manager.yaml`` file to something similar as
below. Mind that it is recommended to pass the URL via an `environment variable`_, which
can e.g. be set in your ``.env`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    parameters:
        env(JACKRABBIT_URL): 'http://localhost:8080/server/'

    sulu_document_manager:
        sessions:
            default:
                backend:
                    type: jackrabbit
                    url: "%env(JACKRABBIT_URL)%"
                workspace: "%env(PHPCR_WORKSPACE)%"
            live:
                backend:
                    type: jackrabbit
                    url: "%env(JACKRABBIT_URL)%"
                workspace: "%env(PHPCR_WORKSPACE)%_live"

.. note::

    The ``PHPCR_WORKSPACE`` is something similar as a database name so it is best practice
    to have a similar value for it, for example: ``su_myproject`` in your ``.env`` files.

Migration
---------

In order to migrate from ``doctrinedbal`` to ``jackrabbit`` you have to export your
data before changing the configuration:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:export -p /cmf cmf.xml
    bin/websiteconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:export -p /cmf cmf_live.xml
    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:export -p /jcr:versions jcr.xml

Then change the configuration as explained in the above Configuration section, and
then execute the following command to initialize the jackrabbit workspaces for sulu:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole cache:clear
    bin/adminconsole sulu:document:initialize

Now executed these commands to clear any previously existing data (first you should make
sure that you really don't need this data anymore).

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:node:remove /cmf
    bin/websiteconsole doctrine:phpcr:node:remove /cmf
    # the following command can fail if the node not exist ignore the error then:
    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:node:remove /jcr:versions

After that you can import the exported data from ``doctrinedbal`` into ``jackrabbit``
by running the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:import -p / cmf.xml
    bin/websiteconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:import -p / cmf_live.xml
    bin/adminconsole doctrine:phpcr:workspace:import -p / jcr.xml

.. _`Jackrabbit`: https://jackrabbit.apache.org/jcr/index.html
.. _`environment variable`: https://symfony.com/doc/4.4/configuration.html#config-env-vars
