cookbook/smart-content-data-provider.rst, before:

DataProvider for SmartContent
=============================

DataProviders are used to load data for SmartContent. It returns data filtered
by a configuration array. This array can be configured with an overlay in the
backend form.

This configuration array includes following values:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - dataSource
      - Additional constraint - like page-"folder".
    * - tags
      - Multiple selection of tags, which a item should have.
    * - tagOperator
      - The item has any or all of the selected tags.
    * - categories
      - Multiple selection of categories, which a item should have.
    * - categoryOperator
      - The item has any or all of the selected categories.

Tags (websiteTags) and Categories (websiteCategories) can also be "injected" by
GET parameters from the website. This can be handled separately from the
admin-selected. Also different operators (websiteTagsOperator and
websiteCategoryOperator) are available.

Additional features, which can be provided with a DataProvider:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - presentAs
      - Value can be used in the website for display options - like one or two
        column - these values can be freely configured by developers.
    * - page & pageSize
      - Pagination of items.
    * - limit
      - Maximum items for (if pagination is active) over all pages or overall.

How to create a custom DataProvider?
------------------------------------

To create a custom data provider you have to create a service which
implements the Interface `DataProviderInterface`. This Interface provides
functions to resolve the configured filters for the backend API with
standardized objects and for the website with array and entity access.
Additionally the DataProvider returns a configuration object to enable or
disable features.

There exists an abstraction layer for ORM DataProviders. This layer provides the
implementation of basic DataProvider functionality and Database query.

If you want to create a DataProvider for the ExampleEntity you have todo
following steps.

1. Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The repository has to implement the DataProviderRepositoryInterface and provide
the findByFilters function. If the default implementation is good enough, you
can include the trait `DataProviderRepositoryTrait`, which needs the functions
`createQueryBuilder` (is default in repositories) and `appendJoins` where you
are able to configure eager loading for the entity.

The rest of the functionality and Query generation is done in the Trait.

.. code-block:: php

  <?php

    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\DataProviderRepositoryInterface;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\DataProviderRepositoryTrait;

  /**
   * Repository for the ExampleEntities.
   */
  class ExampleRepository extends EntityRepository implements DataProviderRepositoryInterface
  {
      use DataProviderRepositoryTrait;

      /**
       * {@inheritdoc}
       */
      public function appendJoins(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias, $locale)
      {
          $queryBuilder->addSelect('type')->leftJoin($alias . '.type', 'type');
      }
  }

.. note::

    Be sure that the returned entities has valid serialization configuration for
    JMS\Serializer.

There are the following hooks to influence the query generation. These are
functions which are optional to override in the repository.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - append(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias, $locale, $options = [])
      - Additional `select`, `where` or `joins` can be added to the query to
        match given options. The options can be generated by the data-provider
        and can contain for example additional filter parameter.
    * - appendTagsRelation(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias)
      - If your entity is not directly connected to the tags (entity.tags) you
        can append here all needed joins and return the path to the tag
        relation.
    * - appendCategoriesRelation(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias)
      - Same as tags.
    * - appendDatasource($datasource, $includeSubFolders, QueryBuilder
        $queryBuilder, $alias)
      - If your dataprovider can handle datasources you can add the
        functionality to filter by the datasource here.

2. DataItem
~~~~~~~~~~~

The DataItem will be used in the backend to display the filtered items. This
class implements the Interface `ItemInterface`.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\ItemInterface;

    /**
     * Represents example item in example data provider.
     *
     * @ExclusionPolicy("all")
     */
    class ExampleDataItem implements ItemInterface
    {
        /**
         * @var Example
         */
        private $entity;

        public function __construct(Example $entity)
        {
            $this->entity = $entity;
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         *
         * @VirtualProperty
         */
        public function getId()
        {
            return $this->entity->getId();
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         *
         * @VirtualProperty
         */
        public function getTitle()
        {
            return $this->entity->getTitle();
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         *
         * @VirtualProperty
         */
        public function getImage()
        {
            return $this->entity->getImage();
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         */
        public function getResource()
        {
            return $this->entity;
        }
    }

.. note::

    If you return an image within the `getImage` function it will be displayed
    in the admin ui. You should be sure that the image is not bigger that 50x50.

3. DataProvider
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Also the DataProvider is mostly abstracted by the SmartContent Component. The
optimize in the configuration you can disable or enable the form-elements to
avoid filtering for that values.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use JMS\Serializer\SerializerInterface;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\BaseDataProvider;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\DataProviderRepositoryInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\RequestStack;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\ItemInterface;

    /**
     * Example DataProvider for SmartContent.
     */
    class ExampleDataProvider extends BaseDataProvider
    {
        /**
         * @var RequestStack
         */
        private $requestStack;

        public function __construct(DataProviderRepositoryInterface $repository, SerializerInterface $serializer, RequestStack $requestStack)
        {
            parent::__construct($repository, $serializer);

            $this->requestStack = $requestStack;

            $this->configuration = self::createConfigurationBuilder()
                ->enableTags()
                ->enableLimit()
                ->enablePagination()
                ->enablePresentAs()
                ->getConfiguration();
        }

        /**
         * Decorates result as data item.
         *
         * @param array $data
         *
         * @return ItemInterface[]
         */
        protected function decorateDataItems(array $data)
        {
            return array_map(
                function ($item) {
                    return new ExampleDataItem($item);
                },
                $data
            );
        }

        /**
         * Returns additional options for query creation.
         *
         * @param PropertyParameter[] $propertyParameter
         * @param array $options
         *
         * @return array
         */
        protected function getOptions(array $propertyParameter, array $options = []) {
            $request = $this->requestStack->getCurrentRequest();

            $result = [
                'type' => $request->get('type'),
            ];

            return array_filter($result);
        }
    }

.. note::

    The ``ConfigurationBuilder`` also has a ``enableDatasource`` function, which
    allows to choose a source for the request. This is very useful in tree
    structures, because it allows to filter e.g. only for pages below a certain
    page.

4. Service Definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Define a service with your Repository and DataProvider and add the tag
`sulu.smart_content.data_provider` with a alias to your DataProvider service
definition.

.. code-block:: xml

        <service id="sulu_example.example_repository" class="Sulu\Bundle\ExampleBundle\Entity\ExampleRepository"
                 factory-method="getRepository" factory-service="doctrine">
            <argument>%sulu_example.example.entity%</argument>
        </service>

        <service id="sulu_example.smart_content.data_provider.example" class="Sulu\Bundle\ExampleBundle\SmartContent\ExampleDataProvider">
            <argument type="service" id="sulu_example.example_repository"/>
            <argument type="service" id="serializer"/>
            <argument type="service" id="request_stack"/>

            <tag name="sulu.smart_content.data_provider" alias="example"/>
        </service>

Afterwards you can use your new DataProvider within a normal SmartContent
property.

.. note::

    Mind that the `class` property should set to a sensible value, but it has
    no influence in the actual result (see the `Factory service documentation`_
    of Symfony for more details). So it is very important to set the repository
    class correct in the `doctrine metadata`_ for this to work.

.. _Factory service documentation: http://symfony.com/doc/current/service_container/factories.html
.. _doctrine metadata: https://symfony.com/doc/current/doctrine/repository.html

Commit message:

Add description to use deep links within a smart content field (#511)

cookbook/smart-content-data-provider.rst, after:

DataProvider for SmartContent
=============================

DataProviders are used to load data for SmartContent. It returns data filtered
by a configuration array. This array can be configured with an overlay in the
backend form.

This configuration array includes following values:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - dataSource
      - Additional constraint - like page-"folder".
    * - tags
      - Multiple selection of tags, which a item should have.
    * - tagOperator
      - The item has any or all of the selected tags.
    * - categories
      - Multiple selection of categories, which a item should have.
    * - categoryOperator
      - The item has any or all of the selected categories.

Tags (websiteTags) and Categories (websiteCategories) can also be "injected" by
GET parameters from the website. This can be handled separately from the
admin-selected. Also different operators (websiteTagsOperator and
websiteCategoryOperator) are available.

Additional features, which can be provided with a DataProvider:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - presentAs
      - Value can be used in the website for display options - like one or two
        column - these values can be freely configured by developers.
    * - page & pageSize
      - Pagination of items.
    * - limit
      - Maximum items for (if pagination is active) over all pages or overall.

How to create a custom DataProvider?
------------------------------------

To create a custom data provider you have to create a service which
implements the Interface `DataProviderInterface`. This Interface provides
functions to resolve the configured filters for the backend API with
standardized objects and for the website with array and entity access.
Additionally the DataProvider returns a configuration object to enable or
disable features.

There exists an abstraction layer for ORM DataProviders. This layer provides the
implementation of basic DataProvider functionality and Database query.

If you want to create a DataProvider for the ExampleEntity you have todo
following steps.

1. Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The repository has to implement the DataProviderRepositoryInterface and provide
the findByFilters function. If the default implementation is good enough, you
can include the trait `DataProviderRepositoryTrait`, which needs the functions
`createQueryBuilder` (is default in repositories) and `appendJoins` where you
are able to configure eager loading for the entity.

The rest of the functionality and Query generation is done in the Trait.

.. code-block:: php

  <?php

    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\DataProviderRepositoryInterface;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\DataProviderRepositoryTrait;

  /**
   * Repository for the ExampleEntities.
   */
  class ExampleRepository extends EntityRepository implements DataProviderRepositoryInterface
  {
      use DataProviderRepositoryTrait;

      /**
       * {@inheritdoc}
       */
      public function appendJoins(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias, $locale)
      {
          $queryBuilder->addSelect('type')->leftJoin($alias . '.type', 'type');
      }
  }

.. note::

    Be sure that the returned entities has valid serialization configuration for
    JMS\Serializer.

There are the following hooks to influence the query generation. These are
functions which are optional to override in the repository.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
    * - append(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias, $locale, $options = [])
      - Additional `select`, `where` or `joins` can be added to the query to
        match given options. The options can be generated by the data-provider
        and can contain for example additional filter parameter.
    * - appendTagsRelation(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias)
      - If your entity is not directly connected to the tags (entity.tags) you
        can append here all needed joins and return the path to the tag
        relation.
    * - appendCategoriesRelation(QueryBuilder $queryBuilder, $alias)
      - Same as tags.
    * - appendDatasource($datasource, $includeSubFolders, QueryBuilder
        $queryBuilder, $alias)
      - If your dataprovider can handle datasources you can add the
        functionality to filter by the datasource here.

2. DataItem
~~~~~~~~~~~

The DataItem will be used in the backend to display the filtered items. This
class implements the Interface `ItemInterface`.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\ItemInterface;

    /**
     * Represents example item in example data provider.
     *
     * @ExclusionPolicy("all")
     */
    class ExampleDataItem implements ItemInterface
    {
        /**
         * @var Example
         */
        private $entity;

        public function __construct(Example $entity)
        {
            $this->entity = $entity;
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         *
         * @VirtualProperty
         */
        public function getId()
        {
            return $this->entity->getId();
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         *
         * @VirtualProperty
         */
        public function getTitle()
        {
            return $this->entity->getTitle();
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         *
         * @VirtualProperty
         */
        public function getImage()
        {
            return $this->entity->getImage();
        }

        /**
         * {@inheritdoc}
         */
        public function getResource()
        {
            return $this->entity;
        }
    }

.. note::

    If you return an image within the `getImage` function it will be displayed
    in the admin ui. You should be sure that the image is not bigger that 50x50.

3. DataProvider
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Also the DataProvider is mostly abstracted by the SmartContent Component. The
optimize in the configuration you can disable or enable the form-elements to
avoid filtering for that values.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use JMS\Serializer\SerializerInterface;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\BaseDataProvider;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\Orm\DataProviderRepositoryInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\RequestStack;
    use Sulu\Component\SmartContent\ItemInterface;

    /**
     * Example DataProvider for SmartContent.
     */
    class ExampleDataProvider extends BaseDataProvider
    {
        /**
         * @var RequestStack
         */
        private $requestStack;

        public function __construct(DataProviderRepositoryInterface $repository, SerializerInterface $serializer, RequestStack $requestStack)
        {
            parent::__construct($repository, $serializer);

            $this->requestStack = $requestStack;

            $this->configuration = self::createConfigurationBuilder()
                ->enableTags()
                ->enableLimit()
                ->enablePagination()
                ->enablePresentAs()
                ->enableView('example.edit_form', ['id' => 'id', 'properties/webspaceKey' => 'webspace'])
                ->getConfiguration();
        }

        /**
         * Decorates result as data item.
         *
         * @param array $data
         *
         * @return ItemInterface[]
         */
        protected function decorateDataItems(array $data)
        {
            return array_map(
                function ($item) {
                    return new ExampleDataItem($item);
                },
                $data
            );
        }

        /**
         * Returns additional options for query creation.
         *
         * @param PropertyParameter[] $propertyParameter
         * @param array $options
         *
         * @return array
         */
        protected function getOptions(array $propertyParameter, array $options = []) {
            $request = $this->requestStack->getCurrentRequest();

            $result = [
                'type' => $request->get('type'),
            ];

            return array_filter($result);
        }
    }

.. note::

    The ``ConfigurationBuilder`` also has a ``enableDatasource`` function, which
    allows to choose a source for the request. This is very useful in tree
    structures, because it allows to filter e.g. only for pages below a certain
    page.

There is an `enableLimit`, an `enablePagination` and an `enablePresentAs` call,
which allow you to enable certain features. And the optional `enableView`
allows you to define to which `View` the application should navigate, when one
of the resulting items is clicked. The first parameters describes the view
defined in an `Admin` class, and the second part is a mapping from a json
pointer, which defines where from the loaded smart content item the value
should be received, to the parameter of the `View`'s path.

4. Service Definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Define a service with your Repository and DataProvider and add the tag
`sulu.smart_content.data_provider` with a alias to your DataProvider service
definition.

.. code-block:: xml

        <service id="sulu_example.example_repository" class="Sulu\Bundle\ExampleBundle\Entity\ExampleRepository"
                 factory-method="getRepository" factory-service="doctrine">
            <argument>%sulu_example.example.entity%</argument>
        </service>

        <service id="sulu_example.smart_content.data_provider.example" class="Sulu\Bundle\ExampleBundle\SmartContent\ExampleDataProvider">
            <argument type="service" id="sulu_example.example_repository"/>
            <argument type="service" id="serializer"/>
            <argument type="service" id="request_stack"/>

            <tag name="sulu.smart_content.data_provider" alias="example"/>
        </service>

Afterwards you can use your new DataProvider within a normal SmartContent
property.

.. note::

    Mind that the `class` property should set to a sensible value, but it has
    no influence in the actual result (see the `Factory service documentation`_
    of Symfony for more details). So it is very important to set the repository
    class correct in the `doctrine metadata`_ for this to work.

.. _Factory service documentation: http://symfony.com/doc/current/service_container/factories.html
.. _doctrine metadata: https://symfony.com/doc/current/doctrine/repository.html
