cookbook/user-context-caching.rst, before:

User context caching
====================

HTTP caching does not work out of the box when a session comes into play.
Fortunately the FOSHttpCacheBundle has a feature called `User Context`_.

In this document we will quickly go through the steps necessary to activate the
User Context feature in Sulu.

.. note::

    For more information about this topic visit the `User Context`_ page in the
    FOSHttpCacheBundle documentation.

1. Uncomment the ``user_context_hash`` route in `config/routes/fos_http_cache.yaml`

.. code-block:: yaml

    user_context_hash:
        path: /_fos_user_context_hash

2. Uncomment the ``user_context`` session in `config/packages/fos_http_cache.yaml`

.. code-block:: yaml

    fos_http_cache:
        user_context:
            enabled: true
            role_provider: true
            hash_cache_ttl: 0

3. Uncomment the registration of the  ``UserContextListener`` in `src/Kernel.php`

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    class Kernel extends SuluKernel implements HttpCacheProvider
    {
        public function getHttpCache()
        {
            if (!$this->httpCache) {
                $this->httpCache = new SuluHttpCache($this);
                // Activate the following for user based caching see also:
                // https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features/user-context.html
                //
                $this->httpCache->addSubscriber(
                    new \FOS\HttpCache\SymfonyCache\UserContextListener([
                        'session_name_prefix' => 'SULUSESSID',
                    ])
                );
            }

            return $this->httpCache;
        }
    }

4. Uncomment the ``security`` configuration in `config/packages/security_website.yaml`

.. note::

    The Symfony Security component is used here, which has its own, very detailed,
    `documentation`_.

.. code-block:: yaml

    security:
        encoders:
            Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\User: bcrypt

        providers:
            sulu:
                id: sulu_security.user_provider

        firewalls:
            website:
                pattern: ^/
                anonymous: true
                lazy: true
                form_login:
                    login_path: login
                    check_path: login
                logout:
                    path: logout
                    target: /
                remember_me:
                    secret:   "%kernel.secret%"
                    lifetime: 604800 # 1 week in seconds
                    path:     /

    sulu_security:
        checker:
            enabled: true

5. Make sure that Symfony's ``SecurityBundle`` is registered for all contexts
   (by default it is only registered for the admin context) in `config/bundles.php`

.. code-block:: php

    Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\SecurityBundle::class => ['all' => true],

6. Add the login and logout routes to `config/routes_website.yaml`

.. code-block:: yaml

    login:
        path: /login
        controller:   Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\TemplateController
        defaults:
            template: static/login.html.twig

    logout:
        path: /logout

7. Implement the template for the login form in `static/login.html.twig`

.. code-block:: twig

    <form action="{{ path('login') }}" method="post">
        <label for="username">Username:</label>
        <input type="text" id="username" name="_username" />

        <label for="password">Password:</label>
        <input type="password" id="password" name="_password" />

        <button type="submit">login</button>
    </form>

.. note::

    The previous two steps could also be replaced by the `SuluCommunityBundle`_,
    which helps you with creating login and registration forms. Additionally it
    helps you with creating opt-in emails and other tasks.

8. Activate Permission Check for pages (optional)

If you want to allow the content manager to restrict pages to specific roles, you
need to enable permission checks in your webspace configuration:

.. code-block:: xml

    <security permission-check="true">
        <system>example</system>
    </security>

.. _User Context: https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features/user-context.html
.. _documentation: https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html
.. _SuluCommunityBundle: https://github.com/sulu/SuluCommunityBundle

Commit message:

Add note about security init command

cookbook/user-context-caching.rst, after:

User context caching
====================

HTTP caching does not work out of the box when a session comes into play.
Fortunately the FOSHttpCacheBundle has a feature called `User Context`_.

In this document we will quickly go through the steps necessary to activate the
User Context feature in Sulu.

.. note::

    For more information about this topic visit the `User Context`_ page in the
    FOSHttpCacheBundle documentation.

1. Uncomment the ``user_context_hash`` route in `config/routes/fos_http_cache.yaml`

.. code-block:: yaml

    user_context_hash:
        path: /_fos_user_context_hash

2. Uncomment the ``user_context`` session in `config/packages/fos_http_cache.yaml`

.. code-block:: yaml

    fos_http_cache:
        user_context:
            enabled: true
            role_provider: true
            hash_cache_ttl: 0

3. Uncomment the registration of the  ``UserContextListener`` in `src/Kernel.php`

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    class Kernel extends SuluKernel implements HttpCacheProvider
    {
        public function getHttpCache()
        {
            if (!$this->httpCache) {
                $this->httpCache = new SuluHttpCache($this);
                // Activate the following for user based caching see also:
                // https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features/user-context.html
                //
                $this->httpCache->addSubscriber(
                    new \FOS\HttpCache\SymfonyCache\UserContextListener([
                        'session_name_prefix' => 'SULUSESSID',
                    ])
                );
            }

            return $this->httpCache;
        }
    }

4. Uncomment the ``security`` configuration in `config/packages/security_website.yaml`

.. note::

    The Symfony Security component is used here, which has its own, very detailed,
    `documentation`_.

.. code-block:: yaml

    security:
        encoders:
            Sulu\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Entity\User: bcrypt

        providers:
            sulu:
                id: sulu_security.user_provider

        firewalls:
            website:
                pattern: ^/
                anonymous: true
                lazy: true
                form_login:
                    login_path: login
                    check_path: login
                logout:
                    path: logout
                    target: /
                remember_me:
                    secret:   "%kernel.secret%"
                    lifetime: 604800 # 1 week in seconds
                    path:     /

    sulu_security:
        checker:
            enabled: true

5. Make sure that Symfony's ``SecurityBundle`` is registered for all contexts
   (by default it is only registered for the admin context) in `config/bundles.php`

.. code-block:: php

    Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\SecurityBundle::class => ['all' => true],

6. Add the login and logout routes to `config/routes_website.yaml`

.. code-block:: yaml

    login:
        path: /login
        controller:   Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\TemplateController
        defaults:
            template: static/login.html.twig

    logout:
        path: /logout

7. Implement the template for the login form in `static/login.html.twig`

.. code-block:: twig

    <form action="{{ path('login') }}" method="post">
        <label for="username">Username:</label>
        <input type="text" id="username" name="_username" />

        <label for="password">Password:</label>
        <input type="password" id="password" name="_password" />

        <button type="submit">login</button>
    </form>

.. note::

    The previous two steps could also be replaced by the `SuluCommunityBundle`_,
    which helps you with creating login and registration forms. Additionally it
    helps you with creating opt-in emails and other tasks.

8. Activate Permission Check for pages (optional)

If you want to allow the content manager to restrict pages to specific roles, you
need to enable permission checks in your webspace configuration:

.. code-block:: xml

    <security permission-check="true">
        <system>example</system>
    </security>

.. note::

    After enabling security permission check for your webspace, it is required
    to run the ``bin/console sulu:security:init`` command to create
    the needed anonymous role.

.. _User Context: https://foshttpcachebundle.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features/user-context.html
.. _documentation: https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html
.. _SuluCommunityBundle: https://github.com/sulu/SuluCommunityBundle
