book/image-formats.rst, before:

Configure image formats
=======================

To show images on your website you should define different image formats for optimized output.

Image formats can be defined in:

 - `config/image-formats.xml`

Or when you use the SuluThemeBundle you can define the formats in your theme folder:

 - `path/to/<theme>/config/image-formats.xml`

The following example shows you different ways to define image formats:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">

        <!-- Fixed width and dynamic height -->
        <format key="300x">
            <scale x="300"/>
        </format>

        <!-- Dynamic width and fixed height -->
        <format key="x200">
            <scale y="200"/>
        </format>

        <!-- Fixed width and fixed height -->
        <format key="300x200">
            <scale x="300" y="200"/>
        </format>

        <!-- Max width and max height -->
        <format key="300x200-inset">
            <scale x="300" y="200" mode="inset"/>
        </format>
    </formats>

Defining meta title
-------------------

You should define a meta title for every image format, since these titles are
shown to the content manager in the administration interface when cropping the
images.

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x">
            <meta>
                <title lang="en">Author Avatar</title>
                <title lang="de">Autor Avatar</title>
            </meta>

            <scale x="300"/>
        </format>

        <format key="920x">
            <meta>
                <title lang="en">Header</title>
                <title lang="de">Header</title>
            </meta>

            <scale x="920"/>
        </format>
    </formats>

Image Compression
-----------------

Global image compression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Images will not get compressed by default when you upload them. You can set the
compression for images globally e.g. in the `config/packages/sulu_media.yml`.
This file does not exist by default and must be created on your own.

.. code-block:: yaml

    sulu_media:
        format_manager:
            default_imagine_options:
                jpeg_quality: 80
                webp_quality: 80
                png_compression_level: 6

Its recommended to have `jpeg_quality` between 70-90 as this is the best compromise between quality and image size.

Specific image compression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A image compression can also be set on a specific image format the following way:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <options>
                <option name="jpeg_quality">80</option>
                <option name="webp_quality">80</option>
                <option name="png_compression_level">6</option>
            </options>
        </format>
    </formats>

Transformations
---------------

There are several transformations available in sulu to add some effects to your images:

Blur
^^^^

Will blur the image by a given `sigma` parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-blur">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <transformation>
                    <effect>blur</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="sigma">6</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Grayscale
^^^^^^^^^

Will convert the image into a black/white image:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-black">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Black/white effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>grayscale</effect>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Gamma
^^^^^

Will add a gamma effect by a given `correction` parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-gamma">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Gamma effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>gamma</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="correction">0.7</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
        </format>
    </formats>

Sharpen
^^^^^^^

Will add a sharpen effect:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-sharpen">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Sharpen effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>sharpen</effect>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Paste
^^^^^

The paste transformation effect will add another image on top on the rendered image.
This can be used to add a border or a copyright to the image.

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x300-border">
            <scale x="300" y="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Paste effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>paste</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="image">@AppBundle/Resources/public/border.png</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

The given image can be positioned by adding `x`, `y`, `w` `h` parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x300-border">
            <scale x="300" y="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Paste effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>paste</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="image">@AppBundle/Resources/public/border.png</parameter>
                        <parameter name="x">0</parameter>
                        <parameter name="y">0</parameter>
                        <parameter name="w">300</parameter>
                        <parameter name="h">300</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Combining Transformations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Transformation effect can also be combined the following way:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-blur-black">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <transformation>
                    <effect>blur</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="sigma">6</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>

                <transformation>
                    <effect>grayscale</effect>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Editing exist image formats
---------------------------

If you edit exist image formats you need to run the following command to purge the image format cache:

.. code-block:: bash

    php bin/websiteconsole sulu:media:format:cache:clear

This will delete all generated images. The new image will be generated on first request of the image format.

Remove old images
-----------------

In a multi server setup the image formats are only removed on one server.
To remove generated images which media not longer exist in the database run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   php bin/websiteconsole sulu:media:format:cache:cleanup

Commit message:

Add docs for regenerate formats command

book/image-formats.rst, after:

Configure image formats
=======================

To show images on your website you should define different image formats for optimized output.

Image formats can be defined in:

 - `config/image-formats.xml`

Or when you use the SuluThemeBundle you can define the formats in your theme folder:

 - `path/to/<theme>/config/image-formats.xml`

The following example shows you different ways to define image formats:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">

        <!-- Fixed width and dynamic height -->
        <format key="300x">
            <scale x="300"/>
        </format>

        <!-- Dynamic width and fixed height -->
        <format key="x200">
            <scale y="200"/>
        </format>

        <!-- Fixed width and fixed height -->
        <format key="300x200">
            <scale x="300" y="200"/>
        </format>

        <!-- Max width and max height -->
        <format key="300x200-inset">
            <scale x="300" y="200" mode="inset"/>
        </format>
    </formats>

Defining meta title
-------------------

You should define a meta title for every image format, since these titles are
shown to the content manager in the administration interface when cropping the
images.

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x">
            <meta>
                <title lang="en">Author Avatar</title>
                <title lang="de">Autor Avatar</title>
            </meta>

            <scale x="300"/>
        </format>

        <format key="920x">
            <meta>
                <title lang="en">Header</title>
                <title lang="de">Header</title>
            </meta>

            <scale x="920"/>
        </format>
    </formats>

Image Compression
-----------------

Global image compression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Images will not get compressed by default when you upload them. You can set the
compression for images globally e.g. in the `config/packages/sulu_media.yml`.
This file does not exist by default and must be created on your own.

.. code-block:: yaml

    sulu_media:
        format_manager:
            default_imagine_options:
                jpeg_quality: 80
                webp_quality: 80
                png_compression_level: 6

Its recommended to have `jpeg_quality` between 70-90 as this is the best compromise between quality and image size.

Specific image compression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A image compression can also be set on a specific image format the following way:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <options>
                <option name="jpeg_quality">80</option>
                <option name="webp_quality">80</option>
                <option name="png_compression_level">6</option>
            </options>
        </format>
    </formats>

Transformations
---------------

There are several transformations available in sulu to add some effects to your images:

Blur
^^^^

Will blur the image by a given `sigma` parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-blur">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <transformation>
                    <effect>blur</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="sigma">6</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Grayscale
^^^^^^^^^

Will convert the image into a black/white image:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-black">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Black/white effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>grayscale</effect>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Gamma
^^^^^

Will add a gamma effect by a given `correction` parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-gamma">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Gamma effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>gamma</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="correction">0.7</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
        </format>
    </formats>

Sharpen
^^^^^^^

Will add a sharpen effect:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-sharpen">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Sharpen effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>sharpen</effect>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Paste
^^^^^

The paste transformation effect will add another image on top on the rendered image.
This can be used to add a border or a copyright to the image.

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x300-border">
            <scale x="300" y="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Paste effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>paste</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="image">@AppBundle/Resources/public/border.png</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

The given image can be positioned by adding `x`, `y`, `w` `h` parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x300-border">
            <scale x="300" y="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <!-- Paste effect -->
                <transformation>
                    <effect>paste</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="image">@AppBundle/Resources/public/border.png</parameter>
                        <parameter name="x">0</parameter>
                        <parameter name="y">0</parameter>
                        <parameter name="w">300</parameter>
                        <parameter name="h">300</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Combining Transformations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Transformation effect can also be combined the following way:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <formats xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats"
             xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
             xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats http://schemas.sulu.io/media/formats-1.1.xsd">
        <format key="300x-blur-black">
            <scale x="300"/>

            <transformations>
                <transformation>
                    <effect>blur</effect>
                    <parameters>
                        <parameter name="sigma">6</parameter>
                    </parameters>
                </transformation>

                <transformation>
                    <effect>grayscale</effect>
                </transformation>
            </transformations>
        </format>
    </formats>

Editing existing image formats
------------------------------

If you edit exist image formats you need to run the following command to regenerate exist images:

.. code-block:: bash

   php bin/websiteconsole sulu:media:regenerate-formats

or the following command to purge the image format cache:

.. code-block:: bash

    php bin/websiteconsole sulu:media:format:cache:clear

This will delete all generated images. The new image will be generated on first request of the image format.

Remove old images
-----------------

In a multi server setup the image formats are only removed on one server.
To remove generated images which media not longer exist in the database run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   php bin/websiteconsole sulu:media:format:cache:cleanup
